Docs 10035 develop compat matrix prototype oas3 pa--DON'T CLOSE (#94)
mulesoft/docs-general: modules/ROOT/pages/api-spec-support-api-designer.adoc

= API Specifications Support in API Designer
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]
:keywords: api, instance, manager

You can implement your API specification in a way that best suits your needs. The following table explains how each of the features of the API specification is best implemented and the level of support provided for the specification in API Designer.

[%header%autowidth.spread,cols="a,a,a,a"]
|===
| Feature: Description| RAML Implementation | OAS Implementation | API Designer Support 

> | Modularity: The ability to break an API specification into reusable and shared units. | Not applicable  | Not applicable  | Not applicable 

Reviewer: I think those section-rows are going to be confusing if we can't make them span over multiple rows. Does [this](https://asciidoc.org/chunked/ch23.html) help?

Here's what it would look like (I'll let you test it):
```suggestion
+4| Modularity: The ability to break an API specification into reusable and shared units. 
```

If that's not an option, I would break-up the table into multiple tables, per feature.

> | API Document: The main API specification description metadata, which is the entry point for the specification. | RAML doc | OAS doc | The design of the API project console is rendered and the document and examples are validated. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| API Document: The main API specification description metadata, which is the entry point for the specification. | RAML root document | OAS root document | The design of the API project console is rendered and the document and examples are validated. 
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> | Libraries: The unit containing collections of related reusable description elements. | RAML library | Implemented indirectly using an empty specification. Only components are supported in the OAS doc. | Edited as a stand-alone project. Supports the reuse of the    module in an API project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Libraries: The unit containing collections of related reusable description elements. | RAML library | Can be implemented using an empty OAS specification containing multiple components. | Edited as a stand-alone project. Supports the reuse of the    module in an API project.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> | Fragments: Stand-alone component of the specification that describes a specific element. | RAML fragment | Implemented indirectly using an empty specification with only one declaration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Fragments: Stand-alone component of the specification that describes a specific element. | RAML fragment | Can be implemented using an empty OAS specification containing a single component.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> or an OAS doc with a single component.| Edited as a stand-alone project and reuse of the module enabled in an API project. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Edited as a stand-alone project and reuse of the module enabled in an API project. 
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> | Overlays: A partial description of the API specification that you can use to overwrite non-functional aspects of the API specification by composing it with the original specification, for example, translating the documentation to other languages. | RAML overlay | Can be simulated with JSON patch or merge tooling. | Can be edited and rendered correctly if used as main the project file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Overlays: A partial description of the API specification that you can use to overwrite non-functional aspects of the API specification by composing it with the original specification, for example, translating the documentation to other languages. | RAML overlay | Can be simulated with JSON patch or merge preprocessing. | Can be edited and rendered correctly if used as main the project file.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> | Extensions: A partial description of the API spec that can be used to overwrite non-functional aspects of the API spec composing it with the original specification, like for example adding the security information for a managed API | RAML extension | Can be simulated with JSON patch or merge tooling. | Can be edited and rendered correctly if used as main the project file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Extensions: A partial description of the API spec that can be used to overwrite non-functional aspects of the API spec composing it with the original specification, like for example adding the security information for a managed API | RAML extension | Can be simulated with JSON patch or merge preprocessing. | Can be edited and rendered correctly if used as main the project file.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

| Reusability: The ability to reuse of the API description in multiple specifications. | Not applicable | Not applicable  | Not applicable 

> | Inline declarations and references: The ability to declare and reference elements from multiple documents. | Inclusion and name refs, RAML type, traits, resource types, and annotations declarations. | JSON-Refs and OAS components. | Autocompletion when editing and dedicated rendering provided in the console.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Inline declarations and references: The ability to declare and reference elements from multiple documents. | Inclusion and named references to: datatypes, traits, resource types, and annotations declarations. | JSON Reference and OAS components. | Autocompletion when editing and dedicated rendering provided in the console.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

| Traits: Macros that extend operations in the functional model, such as pagination, that can be reused in multiple specifications for consistency | Operation macros and RAML traits | Not applicable | Autocompletion when editing and dedicated rendering in console.
| Resource types: Macros that extend resources in the functional model with complex behavior and data definition that can be reused in multiple specifications for consistency | Endpoint macros and RAML resource types | Not applicable | Autocompletion when editing and dedicated rendering in console.

> | API Metadata | *Do we need this?*| | 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Non-functional metadata | | | 
```

> Do we need this?

yes, I think we do.

Author: Done! Thanks!
